                    User guide (3.0.0)

Introduction

          This user manual describes the functionalities of the keyboard used without the Exquis
          application, that is to say connected via USB, MIDI DIN or CV, to third-party software,
          hardware synthesizer, or modular synthesizer.

          The features currently available and presented here are subject to change. Don't forget to
          watch for updates!

          For any questions about your use of Exquis, do not hesitate to contact the community of
          players through its various points of contact; members of the Intuitive Instruments team or
          other users will be able to respond and share it with the community.

          For technical issues, contact support at dualo.com/en/support.

Essential to know

          You can use Exquis:
                 · in MPE (MIDI Polyphonic Expression) on multiple MIDI channels simultaneously, with
                     synthesizers and software that are specifically compatible or that partially support it
                 · in "classic" MIDI (Polyphonic aftertouch) on a single MIDI channel, with any
                     synthesizer and software

          Configure Exquis accordingly from the Settings (2) menu.

          Also configure your synthesizer or software accordingly; if you use Exquis in MPE on a
          synthesizer or software that isn't officially compatible, the latter is probably able to listen to all
          MIDI channels (often labeled "All" or "Omni" in the MIDI input channel selector). Otherwise,
          use Exquis in Polyphonic aftertouch mode on the same selected channel.

          If you are using Exquis with MIDI cables, the two communication types A and B are
          incompatible (and rarely indicated); make sure to use the supplied adapters or any other MIDI
          TRS Type A adapter.

                                                                                                                1
Connectors

          The Exquis keyboard allows connection:
                 · in USB (USB-C connector), for power supply and use with third-party software (e.g.
                     Ableton Live, Garage Band, etc.)
                 · in MIDI (MIDI IN and OUT minijack connectors), for use with third-party software or
                     hardware synthesizers
                 · in CV 0-5V ("GATE", "PITCH" and "MOD" minijack connectors), for use with modular
                     synthesizers

          The Exquis keyboard has a Kensington Nano Security SlotTM for a suitable anti-theft device.

Startup

          The Exquis keyboard simply requires power supply via USB (5 V and 0.9A max), for example
          from a computer, a suitable power supply, or even an external battery. The keyboard starts
          automatically once plugged.

Controls

          From bottom to top, the Exquis keyboard features:
                 · 10 backlit action push buttons
                 · 1 continuous capacitive slider divided into 6 zones with light feedback
                 · 61 backlit hex keys, sensitive to:
                         o velocity: strike and lift force
                         o horizontal tilt: X, Pitch Bend
                         o vertical tilt: Y, CC#74
                         o pressure: Z axis, Channel Pressure or Polyphonic Aftertouch
                 · 4 clickable rotary encoders with light feedback

MIDI THRU

          When received in MIDI IN, following CC MIDI are sent via USB and MIDI OUT:
                · CC#64: sustain pedal (standard)
                · CC#11: expression pedal (standard)
                · CC#65: portamento on/off
                · CC#67: soft pedal

                                                                                                                2
Keyboard

          By default, the Exquis keyboard arranges consecutive notes (semitones) horizontally, and
          harmonious notes (thirds) vertically, from the lowest at the bottom to the highest at the top:

          Harmonious chords (several notes played simultaneously), stacking of thirds, are embodied in
          simple, continuous and ergonomic shapes:

                                          ...

          The most common scales (selection of notes giving the tone of a piece) result from the
          assembly of two 4-note chords; they are thus embodied on the keyboard in the form of a
          continuous luminous double-strand, allowing you to play in tune and improvise effortlessly.
          When plugged in, the keyboard displays the C major scale by default (C D E F G A B).
          Playing chords within the scale allows you to construct coherent and harmonious chord charts.
          With one hand or two hands, explore and compare the different scales to create ever more
          different pieces!

                                                                                                                3
Play

1. Settings (1) (hold): keyboard
settings.

2. Settings (2) (hold): MIDI and layout
settings.

3. MIDI CC#32, click to activate
4. MIDI CC#33, hold to activate
5. MIDI CC#34, hold to activate
Default values are editable in the
Exquis app: Menu > Standalone
settings

6. MIDI clock play (green) / stop
(orange)

7. Octave: transpose the keyboard,
one octave (12 semitones) at a time, to
play higher or lower.

8. Slider: arpeggiator speed (ordered
repetition of notes held on the
keyboard). The pattern and mode are to
be set in the settings menu. The values
are expressed according to the units of
time: 4 = quarter note, 8 = eighth note,
16 = sixteenth note,... 1/4 is equivalent
to 1 note per beat, 1/8 to 2 notes per
beat, 1/16 to 4 notes per beat,...

9. MIDI CC#41, click CC#21                 1/4 1/6 1/8 1/12 1/16 1/24
10. MIDI CC#42, click CC#22
11. MIDI CC#43, click CC#23
12. MIDI CC#44
Default values are editable in the
Exquis app: Menu > Standalone
settings

12. Freeze (click): Freeze notes !
Hold and modulate notes with your fingers, then briefly click the rotary encoder to lock them.
Add more notes the same way, or unfreeze notes by touching them again. Disable all frozen
notes by briefly clicking the rotary encoder when no notes are being held. You can use this
function in combination with the arpeggiator.

                                                                                                4
Settings (1)

1. MIDI clock output: USB (red), DIN
(blue), both (magenta), none (white).

2. Transpose: keyboard shift one
semitone at a time. Particularly useful
for recentering the scale on the
keyboard.

3. Slider: arpeggiator pattern. The
animation of the 6 LEDs of the slider
shows the chosen pattern. Briefly touch
the slider to change the pattern:
- Order: in order of note triggering
- Up: from the lowest to the highest
- Down: from the highest to the lowest
- Convergent: from outside to inside
- Divergent: from inside to outside
- Note repeat: notes are repeated
simultaneously
Hold your finger on the slider for a
second to switch from « latch » mode
(hold while playing) to « toggle » mode
(touch to activate/deactivate).

4. Internal tempo: used by the
arpeggiator and MIDI clock, 120 by
default. Follows the MIDI clock received
via USB or MIDI DIN (if two clocks are
received, follows the first).

5. Tonic note: central note of a song,
around which to build your melodies
and chord charts (A=la, B=si, C=do,
...).

6. Scale: notes giving the tone of the              11. Major Pentatonic
piece. Try different scales and follow              12. Minor Pentatonic
the lights to make a harmonious piece.              13. Whole Tone
By default:                                         14. Chromatic

          1. Major                        7. Keyboard brightness (turn) / sensitivity
          2. Natural Minor                (click + turn) : adjustment of the keyboard global
          3. Melodic Minor                key trigger threshold, from 1 to 99, by default at
          4. Harmonic Minor               50. Warning: a low setting can cause unwanted
          5. Dorian                       note triggers.
          6. Phrygian
          7. Lydian                       8. Firmware version (hold):
          8. Mixolydian                   X.X.X = major.minor.patch = top.middle.bottom
          9. Locrian
          10. Phrygian dominant

                                          5
Settings (2)

          1. MPE / Poly aftertouch: behaviour of
          MIDI channels sent via USB or MIDI
          DIN. Switch the mode by clicking on the
          rotary encoder:
          - MIDI Polyphonic Expression (blue
          LED): control on the X Y and Z axes
          independent by key, one note per
          channel. Channel 1 is used for global
          messages, rotating the rotary encoder
          allows you to edit the number of
          additional MIDI channels, shown on the
          keyboard (1 to 14). A setting of 14 is
          recommended unless specific need.
          Channel 16 is used for communication
          with DAWs (e.g. Remote Script for
          Ableton Live).
          - Poly aftertouch (yellow LED):
          independent Z-axis control per note.
          You can choose the channel on which
          you send the notes, shown on the
          keyboard (1 to 16).

          2. Per note pitchbend range: in MPE,
          expressed in forty-eighths of the
          maximum range. Two use cases:
          - Set the Pitchbend range of the
          synthesizer used to 48 (generally the
          default value), then set this parameter.
          - Set this parameter to 48, then set the
          Pitchbend range of the synthesizer
          used.
          In CV, expressed in semitones.

          3. Note layout. By default:
                     1. Exquis
                     2. Exquis with duplicates
                     (duplicate notes of the scale are
                     on)
                     3. Chromatic
                     4. 4x4 for drums (MIDI values
                     from 36 to 51)
                     5. General MIDI percussion
                     (MIDI values from 35 to 81)
                     6. Rainbow (MIDI values from 0
                     to 60)

                                                                                                                6
MIDI score

          The Exquis keyboard will display, in green, all notes it receives via MIDI IN or USB. If a note is
          lower or higher than the notes displayed on the keyboard, the associated octave button lights
          up instead.
          The display algorithm is optimized for Exquis note layout, showing no duplicate notes but
          prioritizing notes of the scale or the closest.

Saving and resetting

          All settings are automatically saved when exiting the settings menu, and kept when the
          keyboard is unplugged.
          You can reset default settings by holding the 2nd rotary encoder clicked while plugging into a
          power source.

                                                                                                                7
